Mechanics Summaries
This is intended to fully explain ALL non-obvious mechanics found in the Warhammer nations.
This means anything that isn't in the unit stats or easily found in the inspector.
If something isn't clear, please message me and I'll fix it.

SLAANESH:
Events: Cultist event. When you have a cultist and 40+ unrest in an enemy province,
25% chance per turn of triggering. Cannot be 100 or more troops in the province,
or 20+ PD, and cannot be a capital. Cannot be done to other Chaos nats, can to indies.
Spawns 1 cultist commander, 1 Spawn, 2d6 Daemonettes, 1d6 cultist units and 1d6 Forsaken.
Increases unrest by 30, Turmoil by 2, and changes Dom to Slaanesh's, 4 candles.
Daemonhood event. When you have a Chosen Chaos Lord, there's a 5% chance per turn of triggering.
Kills the Lord and replaces him with: 2/3 chance of Spawn, 1/3 chance of Daemon Princess.
Units: Most units' weapons have multiple attacks. The Chaos Lord will turn into a Chosen Chaos Lord if propheted. You can also receive the Chosen Lords as multiheroes.
Spells: Bliss in Torment quickens friendly sacred demons, basically Celestial Music for Slaanesh. 
Phantasmagoria is basically Panic, and Acquiescence does fatigue damage which scales particularly well with higher levels.

TZEENTCH:
Events: Cultist event. When you have a cultist and 60+ unrest in an enemy province,
15% chance per turn of triggering. Cannot be 100 or more troops in the province,
or 20+ PD, and cannot be a capital. Cannot be done to other Chaos nats, can to indies.
Spawns 1 cultist commander, 1 Spawn, 1d6 Pink Horrors, 1d6 Blue Horrors, 1d6 cultist units and 1d6 Forsaken.
Increases unrest by 30, Turmoil by 2, and changes Dom to Tzeentch's, 3 candles.
Daemonhood event. When you have a Chosen Chaos Lord, there's a 5% chance per turn of triggering.
Kills the Lord and replaces him with: 2/3 chance of Spawn, 1/3 chance of Daemon Prince.
Units: Most units' weapons have multiple attacks. The Chaos Lord will turn into a Chosen Chaos Lord if propheted. You can also receive the Chosen Lords as multiheroes.
The Daemon Prince spell can summon 2 possible units: a prince with a Daemonic Trident or one with a Daemonic halberd.
Vague plans to differentiate them more in the future but that's the only difference for now.

NURGLE:
Events: Cultist event. When you have a cultist, Magic 1 and 80+ unrest in an enemy province,
15% chance per turn of triggering. Cannot be 150 or more troops in the province,
or 25+ PD, and cannot be a capital. Cannot be done to other Chaos nats, can to indies.
Spawns 1 Herald of Nurgle commander and 5d6 Plaguebearers.
Kills 20% of population, increases unrest by 40, Turmoil by 2, and changes Dom to Nurgle's, 3 candles.
Daemonhood event. When you have a Chosen Chaos Lord, there's a 5% chance per turn of triggering.
Kills the Lord and replaces him with: 2/3 chance of Spawn, 1/3 chance of Daemon Prince.
Units: Most units' weapons have multiple attacks. The Chaos Lord will turn into a Chosen Chaos Lord if propheted. You can also receive the Chosen Lords as multiheroes.

OGRE KINGDOMS:
Events: Discover Maw Pit. When you have a fort in a province (not your cap), there's a 10% chance of it triggering per turn.
Creates the Maw Pit, which gives 3 blood slaves/turn and lets you recruit Pitfighters. Gives 5d6 blood slaves and kills 500 pop.
If you lose the fort, the site will change to an abandoned maw pit that does nothing.
If you reconquer the fort, the abandoned pit has a 30% chance per turn of becoming a useful Maw Pit again, with the reopening  giving 2d6 slaves.
Creates at most 1 pit, will not continue to trigger.

SKAVEN:
Events: Discover Warpstone Seam. 6% chance per turn on land, not in cap. Creates a seam that produces 1 of FED per turn.
15% chance/turn of seam exhaustion, 12% if you have a lab there.
Once exhausted, 12% chance of reopening if you have a lab there, else 0.
Reopen chance divided evenly between reopening normally, destroying the lab and repoening, and destroying the lab and not reopening.

LIZARDMEN:
Units: all Slann autocast Communion Master before the battle starts - you don't need to script it.
The Saurus and Wardscale of Xhotl have a 1 hp "shield shape", once this gets hurt they shift into their normal form (15 and 17 hp) for the rest of the battle.
Zlatlan, the One Who Fathomed the Depths appears to have 2 shield shapes before you get to the real him, 100 hp when you do.

TOMB KINGS:
Units: Tomb Priests, High Priests, Tomb Kings, and 1 or 2 heroes can summon units. 
They're a 1/4 chance each of a less armored or more armored spearman, an archer and a cavalryman.
Tomb Priests can summon 2 per turn, everyone else summons 4.
Priest spells: Resilience adds 10 natural prot, Strength of the Tomb adds 4 strength

CHAOS DWARFS:
Units: can recruit slaves - these will be one of the creatures below, frequency listed:
1 unarmored human, 1 unarmored Gnoblar, 2 unarmored Orcs, 3 unarmored Goblins, 1 armored Goblin, 1 armored Orc, 1 armored Ogre

EMPIRE NATIONS:
Various statues produce a set of 15 cavalry and a single commander, abilities in the inspector.
Later recriutments of the same statue just produce the cavalry.